now meringues who likes make them around
us do you have problems making you
around when you do them I do snow
talents you know you kind of don't get
them quite right when they're a little
bit kind of a little bit overcooked what
you want a nice to eat meringue but you
wanted to be nice and crispy on the
outside now eggs are very very unstable
ingredients okay so what we do we start
this off for you now there are various
things you can do is around one of the
first things you need to is make sure
that the eggs are in the peak condition
for making meringues and the way you do
that which is quite a surprising thing
what I like to do is once I've separated
off the eggs and I separately owned by
kind of dropping through my hand it's
let the white sit there look anything to
them just let them sit at room
temperature for at least 20 minutes okay
you want to bring them up to room
temperature and maybe even a little bit
beyond if you can let them sit for an
hour then do that because what happens
is that the oxidation of the egg white
means that when you start to rip them
they will become more voluminous and we
put more glossy and logical more state
which is what it's all about okay so
that's your first fit once you've got
your egg whites before you whip them let
me sit there an hour okay
then have a drink relax take your time
then we whip them out up to sort of a
frothy stage okay I'm just you're kind
of quite quite gently just bring it off
you don't want to kind of overwork it
and have a little bit of sugar to it so
what we're getting is getting the
starter drunk just start to get a visa
sign that little bit glossiness then the
next thing that we do however many egg
whites you've got once you've gotten to
this stage we whip them a little bit
with a little bit of sugar then add
about a tablespoon of water
thank you a tablespoon of water you've
got four egg whites what you're looking
for is we want four tablespoons of water
into here okay that's the first thing
we're going to add and again this helps
make them stable it helps me kind of
state O'Brien's help to get nice and
fluffy and it helps with the volume and
the other thing that I was like I'm sure
you did to do this as well it's just a
little tease food a little splash of
vinegar do you do that name around
brilliant isn't it it's the best thing
in the world so just a little bit of
vinegar and again that acidity cuts
through the egg white and that's for you
isn't it you know sometimes when you
think maybe I should have spent five
minutes more checking offers from the
staff there before I did it a little
splash of vinegar he's all that these
luckily luckily you dopey to see end
results of this one and so when you turn
out there when you actually start
whipping it you'll find that it is far
more delivers it will come together so
much more quickly okay we get that
lovely Gloucester that's a little bit up
look how glossy that already is the
water for vinegar the sugar they're all
reacting together then once we start to
get this lovely volume going on
then you can have a little bit more
sugar and again I think ordinarily you
get a kind of measurement you're looking
at about a tablespoon of sugar egg white
so that means that you're going to get
them sweet but they're not going to be
too too sweet okay so whisk whisk whisk
whisk whisk and just keep it going
really kind of wish get up and see the
really thin got really lovely fence on
them that that's what you're looking
stin okay once that's done then you just
going to put them onto a bit of
parchment and cook them now the other
thing that I do with my meringues and I
don't know if anybody else is this but
it certainly it go work to me is I'll
set the oven quite high to start without
setting about a winter next agreement it
as you all know as foodies you're
looking at about 125 degrees to cook you
around its gas markup or tomorrow or
less and put in so drop your bleeding
but instead if you set the oven high
then the minute you're ready to put the
name drop it right the way down so what
happens is as they go in there's heat in
the oven so that means that the egg
starts to crisp up on the outside okay
the minute they can put it in but as you
turn it down and you slow in that
cooking process down and that's how you
end up with beautiful meringues like
these which would crispy on the outside
and equally a chewy on the inside which
is what you want to do now final things
mate again the relationship arounds is
if you want to put em around it's always
a bit tricky isn't it it's always that
thing that you know if it crumbles more
so than anything else gotta lend
meringue pie want to put a nice piece it
will crumble so there you can try with
your meringue it's really going to cut
it is to oil the knife that you could
sit with ok and again what happens is it
just react a little bit with the egg and
it stops it
sticking so it will stop it put you
through now you're still going to get
big frugal it's an around for goodness
sake but it just means it on a good day
and you cut it down the middle you don't
get that same drag so you get a straight
line like that and you're right rather
the problem